there's one shot that holds the crown
for the worst visual effect shot of all
time the rock from the mummy returns now
whether or not it's actually the worst
vfx shot of all time yeah maybe not but
it sure is goofy looking now we had an
overwhelming response from you guys
asking us to fix the shot and you know
what we finally have a free day in the
studio so i'm gonna gather my vfx bros
i'm gonna sit down and talk about it and
see if we can fix the scorpion king
this movie is another honest attempt at
recreating the charm that indiana jones
had i loved the mummy no the mommy did
it the mommy was successful oh yeah here
we go all right guys pretty good so far
it's okay so far good so far looks good
animation is great they're using that
jurassic park kind of limited lighting
on there and oh
see that doesn't look bad the animation
for the scorpion itself is excellent
whoever hand animated the scorpion
freaking killed it and also the
lighting's really solid like the
scorpion's body itself blends really
well with the scene and like the cues
with all the flames going off and that
affects the lighting on the scorpion
like that all looks really good and they
have this close-up shot of the rock
space and i think there's a great
discovery that happened right then where
everybody realized the human face is way
more difficult than just having cg stuff
in the scene the expressions don't seem
to kind of like sync up at any one
particular point causing the face to
look a little unnatural yeah like one
half of his face smiles the other half
of his face is frowning right here happy
rock
angry rock
and that's the thing and it's like the
lips will like adjust before the eyes
adjust i think that's what it seemed
like a little bit everything just feels
like it's not quite synced up ah he's
too he's too dry but i guess you know if
you're a scorpion entombed for thousands
of years like you'd probably be a little
crusty he's got mummy dust all over him
let's just pretend that there's been
eternal flames burning for thousands of
years while he's been entombed he'd be
pretty sweaty right if you look at the
faces of the other characters in the
scene you can tell that there's this
level of like specular detail on all of
them it's like maybe it's either like a
sharpness or the specularity on their
skin is shinier but it looks a little
like waxy and plasticky compared to
everyone else in the scene and the thing
is like everyone else in the scene has
the same skin tones they're in the same
lighting conditions so they're like
really really good references for what
his face should look like when you pause
here you can see like the little
inconsistencies in the face when we look
at the rock's face it's just kind of
plastic it's all like yeah super smooth
like a like an apple and then also just
look at the lighting mismatch there too
look how hot that light is you know it's
not even reflecting off the face another
big thing i noticed so there's a lot of
gate flare from this fire it shines and
reflects onto the film or onto your
camera sensor and that's what's
happening here we're seeing this yellow
streak coming in off the side now the
scorpion king has been composited on top
of that flare when technically he should
be underneath that flare because that
flare is something that's happening at
the sensor and so if he is part of the
scene that flare would be on top of him
so we could fix that as well and that'd
make him look like he's more part of the
shot sam what are you going to fix in
the shot what are you going to do i am
going to use some cool tricks to
add a little bit of rumble into the
shots and maybe give the guy a little
more weight and then i'm going to do a
little bit of like 2d relighting to make
him blend with the scene and probably do
a little pass to bring out some
highlights hopefully that works peter
what do you got those flames are getting
no respect in the sensor i'm gonna
extrapolate them and add some bloom to
the edges you know add some optical
flares really get that light going some
imperfections that sort of thing like
gordon ramsay of optical flares i like
it clint what do you got that ancient
door it's not ancient enough so i'm
going to make sure that ashes from all
the lost souls are falling off that door
when he interacts with it nico how are
you going to fix the face that's a good
question that is the main offender it's
just the rox mug right there is ps2
cinematic just snarling at ya i got a
plan to fix that so before jumping this
i just want to mention that we actually
have something pretty big at stake here
you know we have this vfx artist react
series they're not building a black and
white
they're not
if we can't pull this shot off no one's
going to take seriously in our videos
anymore that's the end of the series
right we could be digging our own graves
with this episode vfx artists dig their
own cg grace
all right all right
all right gentlemen you each have your
tasks for the day let's do it one two
three scorpion
one two three
[Music]
the original shot is like butter smooth
yet it's this big lumbering creature
bonking stuff so i felt like it could
use a little bit of camera shake you
know on the face here we see this white
fire down in the corner here and we look
at his skin up in this area people's
skin aren't that matted you know if
you've been underground in a cave for
years with your oily skin and you
haven't washed your face and maybe it's
the desert in your hot it's going to
reflect the white so basically what i
did there is it's very very subtle what
i'm doing is i'm taking the footage and
i'm just extracting everything until
it's just like the near whites of the
scene i'm isolating that i'm just
bringing those tones out a little bit
more and then to make it look a little
more natural bring a little even further
extra detail in i'm actually using noise
as my alpha matte just to kind of
simulate like the roughness and pores of
human skin and i think it helps because
you can see kind of has a little bit of
extra shine on it right now compared to
the other characters in the scene this
matches better
yeah what up son you know sometimes in
the world you see something that's been
done and you think i could do that
better and that's exactly what today's
sponsor ray khan has done now let me
tell you a little bit about these
headphones originally raycon reached out
to us and they said hey guys would you
be interested in endorsing our
headphones and i said well you got to
send me some because i need to try them
out with my ears first before i can say
whether or not i actually like them and
whether or not i wanted to tell you
about them there's a bunch of other
wireless headphones out there and you
might have some yourself or you might
still be saving up to buy a pair well
the weight is over here with raycon
because they offer a fantastic quality
at about half of the price of other
premium wireless earbuds now this is
their base model this is the e50 these
are the ones that i've been using and
they fit great they don't fall out when
i run they sound clear as day no matter
the type of music that i'm listening to
and again they come at about half the
price of other premium wireless earbuds
so if you guys are interested head on
over to
byraycon.com corridor crew and you'll
get 20
off your purchase that's pretty good 20
it's not bad not bad at all
so as you know it's my task to do the
face this might seem like an impossible
task at first like am i going to rebuild
the rock and cg am i going to go and
like find a bunch of pictures and do
photogrammetry and rebuild his face do i
have a secret rock 3d model
that's way too much work and i only have
like a day to do this so here's my point
you guys saw our tom cruise deep fake i
should be able to do the same technique
i'm going to take a real dwayne johnson
i'm gonna put him on a cg scorpion king
i don't think anyone's done that before
so the thing with the deep pick is you
need to get a bunch of source material
up the face now the rock right now does
not look like the rock from the mummy
returns that's 2001 rock but you know
what i got a good idea the scorpion king
movie exists and that's just the rock as
a scorpion king for the entire movie i
spent like two hours scrubbing through
the movie i extracted every single time
it was the rock's face it's just the
most authentic scorpion king experience
and source material you could ever hope
for
with these elements of the rock from the
scorpion king i should be able to
replicate his look very very accurately
theoretically i think this is going to
work really well would you guys like to
see the deep fake this is actually a a
thing that i've been thinking about a
lot too which is what if we start to use
real faces on cg characters or even
better yet what if we train the deep
fake algorithm to learn a cg face and
then put it on a real person what is
that going to look like there's some
really twisted stuff you can do i think
this is the first step in discovering
that first i'm just gonna play the
original for you guys okay i'm so
excited dude there's no way it's gonna
work like with all the fire light inside
of his head flashing like that dude all
right so that's the original here we go
i'm nervous this doesn't work i'm
nervous too
whoa whoa whoa
that's weird it looks so much better but
it looks like it does that is actually i
think a little better
it's really tamed uh all the expressions
it was it was that one expression where
he was like
his lips like do like this
so much of the shot still screams like
early 2000s cgi like that plasticky skin
look but changing that face and
improving that face improved the entire
shot as a whole pretty substantially
once again we're fixing this shot and
not redoing it but i think the little
changes we've made will still make a big
difference all right guys it's time for
the big reveal
nico hold on before we do the big reveal
just wanted to say i feel like i made
the shot perfect let me just show all
you guys oh really all of it yeah i
redid the whole shot
dude you did like a space battle zoom
oh man
dude that's really good
like dramatic everything
the refocus
i mean we can just go with that one we
don't i guess we don't have to show the
other one love the jj avenues players
and the fire in front of his face
all right i want to see the actual final
alex that's pretty good
wow i think the shininess paid off a lot
this [__] the forehead shine the face is
definitely much better the chest shine
your your shine technique works boom
like this looks great yeah
man like that's this is the biggest
difference right here when it gets close
up to the camera we still struggle with
some of the limitations of the
technology and having to do it in a day
i'm not trying to make excuses but
definitely like when he's busting
through the door right here the camera
shake is really nice and gives it some
like grounding but it's not overdone the
dust on contact with the door like helps
connect them to the world a little bit
more let's not discount peter's flare
over the arm here
it's one of those things that's so
natural like in normal looking that once
it's in there you just don't notice it
at all but when it's not in there it
makes it look like the rock super ct we
have now i definitely think is an
improvement well that was a fun day
spent in the studio i'd love to hear
your thoughts in the shot and actually
if you think there's another visual
effects shot out there that we could try
fixing i'd love to try more of these and
if you want to see what those look like
please consider subscribing we've got a
bunch more wonky experiments to do we
just got the motion capture suit back
and we have some pretty cool plans with
that have you ever want to do an
obstacle course for the obstacle course
exists only in the computer so in real
life you're doing weird things but you
can't see what you're dodging until
you're looking at the computer screen
maybe you haven't wanted to do that but
you will after you see us do it yeah
subscribe to corridor crew and enjoy
the rest of your
time
on this earth ominous